MCP Servers and Their Functionalities
This list is organized according to the categories presented in the primary source ( github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers): Reference Servers, Official Integrations, and Community Servers.

Reference Servers
AWS KB Retrieval: Retrieval from AWS Knowledge Base using Bedrock Agent Runtime.

Brave Search: Web and local search using Brave's Search API.

EverArt: AI image generation using various models.

Everything: Reference/test server with prompts, resources, and tools.

Fetch: Web content fetching and conversion for efficient LLM usage.

Filesystem: Secure file operations with configurable access controls.

Git: Tools to read, search, and manipulate Git repositories.

GitHub: Repository management, file operations, and GitHub API integration.

GitLab: GitLab API, enabling project management.

Google Drive: File access and search capabilities for Google Drive.

Google Maps: Location services, directions, and place details.

Memory: Knowledge graph-based persistent memory system.

PostgreSQL: Read-only database access with schema inspection.

Puppeteer: Browser automation and web scraping.

Sentry: Retrieving and analyzing issues from Sentry.io.

Sequential Thinking: Dynamic and reflective problem-solving through thought sequences.

Slack: Channel management and messaging capabilities.

Sqlite: Database interaction and business intelligence capabilities.

Time: Time and timezone conversion capabilities.

Official Integrations
Axiom: Query and analyze your Axiom logs, traces, and all other event data in natural language.

Browserbase: Automate browser interactions in the cloud (e.g., web navigation, data extraction, form filling).

Cloudflare: Deploy, configure & interrogate your resources on the Cloudflare developer platform (e.g., Workers/KV/R2/D1).

E2B: Run code in secure sandboxes hosted by E2B.

Exa: Search Engine made for AIs by Exa.

Fireproof: Immutable ledger database with live synchronization.

JetBrains: Work on your code with JetBrains IDEs.

Kagi Search: Search the web using Kagi's search API.

Meilisearch: Interact & query with Meilisearch (Full-text & semantic search API).

Metoro: Query and interact with kubernetes environments monitored by Metoro.

MotherDuck: Query and analyze data with MotherDuck and local DuckDB.

Neo4j: Neo4j graph database server (schema + read/write-cypher) and separate graph database backed memory.

Neon: Interact with the Neon serverless Postgres platform.

Qdrant: Implement semantic memory layer on top of the Qdrant vector search engine.

Raygun: Interact with your crash reporting and real using monitoring data on your Raygun account.

Search1API: One API for Search, Crawling, and Sitemaps.

Tinybird: Interact with Tinybird serverless ClickHouse platform.

Community Servers
AWS S3: Fetches objects (e.g., PDF documents) from AWS S3.

AWS: Perform operations on your AWS resources using an LLM.

Airtable: Read and write access to Airtable databases, with schema inspection.

AlphaVantage: Provides access to stock market data via the AlphaVantage API.

Anki: Interacts with your Anki decks and cards.

Any Chat Completions: Interact with any OpenAI SDK Compatible Chat Completions API like OpenAI, Perplexity, Groq, xAI and many more.

Atlassian: Interact with Atlassian Cloud products (Confluence and Jira) including searching/reading Confluence spaces/pages, accessing Jira issues, and project metadata.

BigQuery: (by LucasHild & ergut) Enables LLMs to inspect database schemas and execute queries on BigQuery.

ChatSum: Query and Summarize chat messages with LLM.

Chroma: Vector database server for semantic document search and metadata filtering.

Cloudinary: Upload media to Cloudinary and get back the media link and details.

cognee-mcp: GraphRAG memory server with customizable ingestion, data processing and search.

coin_api_mcp: Provides access to coinmarketcap cryptocurrency data.

Contentful-mcp: Read, update, delete, publish content in your Contentful space(s).

Data Exploration: Autonomous data exploration on .csv-based datasets. Caution: Executes arbitrary Python code.

DevRev: Integrate with DevRev APIs to search through your DevRev Knowledge Graph.

Docker: Integrate with Docker to manage containers, images, volumes, and networks.

Elasticsearch: Provides Elasticsearch interaction.

Fetch: Flexibly fetches HTML, JSON, Markdown, or plaintext.

FireCrawl: Advanced web scraping with JavaScript rendering, PDF support, and smart rate limiting.

FlightRadar24: Tracks flights in real-time using Flightradar24 data.

Glean: Uses Glean API to search and chat.

Google Calendar: Integration with Google Calendar to check schedules, find time, and add/delete events.

Google Tasks: Google Tasks API Model Context Protocol Server.

Home Assistant: Interact with Home Assistant including viewing and controlling lights, switches, sensors, and all other Home Assistant entities.

HuggingFace Spaces: Server for using HuggingFace Spaces, supporting Open Source Image, Audio, Text Models and more.

Inoyu: Interact with an Apache Unomi CDP customer data platform to retrieve and update customer profiles.

Keycloak MCP: Enables natural language interaction with Keycloak for user and realm management.

Kubernetes: Connect to Kubernetes cluster and manage pods, deployments, and services.

Linear: Allows LLM to interact with Linear's API for project management.

LlamaCloud: (by marcusschiesser) Integrate the data stored in a managed index on LlamaCloud.

MCP Installer: Installs other MCP servers.

mcp-k8s-go: Golang-based Kubernetes server for MCP to browse pods and their logs, events, namespaces and more.

MSSQL: MSSQL database integration with configurable access controls and schema inspection.

Markdownify: MCP to convert almost anything to Markdown (PPTX, HTML, PDF, Youtube Transcripts and more).

Minima: MCP server for RAG on local files.

MongoDB: A Model Context Protocol Server for MongoDB.

MySQL: (by benborla & DesignComputer) MySQL database integration with configurable access controls and schema inspection.

NS Travel Information: Access Dutch Railways (NS) real-time train travel information and disruptions through the official NS API.

Needle: Production-ready RAG out of the box to search and retrieve data from your own documents.

Notion: (by suekou & v-3) Interact with Notion API. Search, Read, Update, and Create pages through Claude chat.

oatpp-mcp: C++ MCP integration for Oat++. Use Oat++ to build MCP servers.

Obsidian Markdown Notes: Read and search through your Obsidian vault or any directory containing Markdown notes.

OpenAPI: Interact with OpenAPI APIs.

OpenRPC: Interact with and discover JSON-RPC APIs via OpenRPC.

Pandoc: MCP server for seamless document format conversion using Pandoc.

Pinecone: MCP server for searching and uploading records to Pinecone. Allows for simple RAG features, leveraging Pinecone's Inference API.

Playwright: This MCP Server will help you run browser automation and webscraping using Playwright.

RAG Web Browser: An MCP server for Apify's RAG Web Browser Actor to perform web searches, scrape URLs, and return content in Markdown.

Rememberizer AI: An MCP server designed for interacting with the Rememberizer data source, facilitating enhanced knowledge retrieval.

Salesforce MCP: Interact with Salesforce Data and Metadata.

Scholarly: A MCP server to search for scholarly and academic articles.

Snowflake: Enables LLMs to interact with Snowflake databases, allowing for secure and controlled data operations.

Spotify: This MCP allows an LLM to play and use Spotify.

TMDB: Integrates with The Movie Database (TMDB) API to provide movie information, search capabilities, and recommendations.

Tavily search: An MCP server for Tavily's search & news API, with explicit site inclusions/exclusions.

Todoist: Interact with Todoist to manage your tasks.

Vega-Lite: Generate visualizations from fetched data using the VegaLite format and renderer.

Windows CLI: MCP server for secure command-line interactions on Windows systems, enabling controlled access to PowerShell, CMD, and Git Bash shells.

X (Twitter): (by EnesCinr & vidhupv) Interact with twitter API. Post tweets and search for tweets by query. Create, manage and publish X/Twitter posts directly through Claude chat.

XMind: Read and search through your XMind directory containing XMind files.